---
title: Chapter 4 - Analysis and Design
author: Krishnanand Sivaraj
date: 2021-05-07 20:55:00 +0800
categories: [Design, Architecture]
tags: [ooad]
pin: false
---

## Chapter 4 : Analysis and Design

>
>Analysis helps your system work in a real-world context.

- Pay attention to the nouns in the usecase.  Those are the classes you need to write and focus on in your system.
- Class diagrams give you and easy way to show your system and its code constructs from 10000 feet view.
- The attributes in a class diagram maps to a member variable.
- Textual analsis helps your translate a usecase into code-level classes, attributes and operations.
- nouns in usecases can be classes and verbs in usecases can be methods.
- coding to an interface, rather than an implementation, makes your software easier to extend.
- By coding to an interface your code will work with all of the interface's subclasses, even ones that haven't been created yet.

> OO principles
>> Encapsulate what varies
>> Code to an interface rather than to an implementation
>> Each class in your app should have one reason to change
>
>> **cohesion** measures the degree of connectivity among the elements of a single module, class or object.
>> The higher the cohesion of your software is, the more well-defined and related the responsibilities of each individual class in your application.
>> Each class has a very specific set of closely related actions it performs.

## Summary / Takeaways

- Well designed software is easy to change and extend
- Use basic OO principles like encapsulation and inheritance to make software more flexible.
- If a design isn't flexible, then change it, never settle on bad design, even if its your bad design it has to change.
- Make sure your class is cohesive, each of your classes should focus on doing one thing really well.
- Always strive for higher cohesion as you move through your software's design life cycle.
